# Linear Transformation

Transformation is a rule that turns **vectors** into other **vectors**.

A **Linear** Transformation is a rule that also satisfies the following rules:
$$T(c \vec u) = cT(\vec u)$$
$$T(\vec u + \vec v) = T(\vec u) + T(\vec v)$$

## Matrix of a Linear Transformation

The usual vectors $\hat i$ and $\hat j$ define a square.

[[singular-linear-transformation]]

## Determinants

The **area** of a parallelogram formed by 2 vectors is $\vert \vec u \times \vec v \vert$, as can be seen:

$$\text{Area} = \text{Height x Base} = (\vert \vec v \vert \sin \theta) \times \vert \vec u \vert = \vert \vec u \vert \vert \vec v \vert \sin \theta = \vert \vec u \times \vec v \vert$$

The **volume** of a _parallelopiped_ is

$$
\vert \vec u \times \vec v \vert \vert \vec w \vert \vert \cos \theta \vert = \vert \vec u \times \vec v \cdot \vec w \vert
$$

### Properties of Determinants

1. $\text{det} \; ST = \text{det} \; TS = (\text{det} \; S)\times (\text{det} \; T)$
2. $\text{det} \; M^T = \text{det} \; M$
3. $\text{det} \; (cM) = c^n \text{det} \; M$

## Inverse

For a $2 \times 2$ matrix,

$$
\begin{bmatrix}
 a & b \\ 
 c & d \\ 
\end{bmatrix}^{-1} =  \frac{1}{ad - bc}
\begin{bmatrix}
 d & -b \\ 
 -c & a \\ 
\end{bmatrix}
$$

### General way to find Inverse

1. Work out the cofactors (determinants without the element)
2. Keep or reverse signs of every element
3. Take the transpose
4. Divide by the determinant of the original matrix

## System of Linear Equations

1. If det $M \neq 0$, then there is an unique solution.
2. If det $M = 0$, there is probably no solution. But if there is one, then there will be many.

## Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues

Some linear transformations do not change the direction of a vector.

eg. $\begin{bmatrix} 1 & 2 \\ 2 & -2\end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix} 2 \\ 1\end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 4 \\ 2\end{bmatrix}$

In general if a transformation $T$ does not change the direction of a vector $\vec u$, that is 

$$T \vec u = \lambda \vec u$$

for some $\lambda$ (scalar), then $\vec u$ is called an **eigenvector** of $T$.
The scalar $\lambda$ is called the **eigenvalue** of $\vec u$.

### Finding Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues

$$T \vec u = \lambda \vec u \Rightarrow (T - \lambda I) \vec u = \vec 0$$

Hence det$(T - \lambda I) = 0$.
This can be solved as a linear equation.

In general, there are $n$ answers for $n \times n$ matrices. (but not always!)

> Important note that eigenvectors are **not unique**. (A scalar multiple of an eigenvector is also an eigenvector)

## Change of Basis

$$L \vec u = P^{-1}TP P^{-1} \vec i = P^{-1}(T\vec i)$$

## Diagonalization

The matrix of a transformation relative to its eigenvectors is diagonal.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[singular-linear-transformation]: singular-linear-transformation "Singular Linear Transformation"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"